---
title: CRUD Resolvers Plugin
sidebar_label: CRUD Resolvers
id: crud-resolvers
---

The Graphback CRUD Resolvers plugin gives developers an opinionated way to generate a set of Node.js server compatible GraphQL resolvers
that will work with the schema and client side queries generated by Graphback.

The generated CRUD resolvers use our [Runtime Abstraction](../crud/crudruntime) that gives you the ability to dynamically connect to a [variety of data sources](../db/datasources).

## Installation

Add the plugin to your application with npm:

```
npm install @graphback/codegen-resolvers
```

## Using

Add `graphback-resolvers` to your `.graphqlrc.yml` config file under the `graphback` extension:

```yml
plugins:
  graphback-resolvers:
    outputPath: ./server/src/resolvers
```

> *`graphback-resolvers` configuration must come **after** `graphback-schema` as it depends on the generated schema*.

Run `graphback generate` to generate your CRUD resolvers. This will generate a single resolvers file in your `outputPath`.

Example generated resolver function:

```ts
findAllNotes: (parent, args, context) => {
  return context.Note.findAll(args)
},
```

For a full example, see our [TypeScript Apollo Template](https://github.com/aerogear/graphback/blob/master/templates/ts-apollo-fullstack/server/src/resolvers/resolvers.ts).

You can then import the resolvers into your application:

```ts
import resolvers from './resolvers/resolvers';

const apolloServer = new ApolloServer({
  ...
  resolvers
})
```

The generated resolvers use our [Runtime Abstraction](../crud/crudruntime) and depend on the CRUD services to be passed to the resolver function as part of the context. To add these services to your application see [Data Sources](../db/datasources).

## Configuration

You can customise how your resolvers are generated by editing `extensions.graphback.graphback-resolvers` in your `.graphqlrc.yml` file.

### File extension

To specify the file extension of the generated resolvers file:

```yml
format: 'ts'
```

If not specified this defaults to `'ts'`.

Supported options: 

- `ts` - TypeScript extension.
- `js` - JavaScript extension.

### Output path

To specify the relative path for the generated resolvers file to be located:

```yml
outputPath: './src/resolvers'
```

### File name

The generated resolvers file by default will be called `resolvers.(ts|js)`. You can override this by adding `resolversFileName` to your config:

```yml
resolversFileName: 'generatedResolvers'
```

If not specified this defaults to `resolvers`.

### Layout

To customise the layout of the resolvers object:

```yml
layout: 'graphql'
```

If not specified this defaults to `'apollo'`.

Supported options:

- `apollo` - Apollo GraphQL resolvers layout.
- `graphql` - GraphQL.js resolvers layout.